# Lines starting with '#' are comments.
# Each line is a file pattern followed by one or more owners,
# the last matching pattern has the most precedence.
#
# See https://help.github.com/articles/about-codeowners/

* @bajtos @raymondfeng

acceptance/repository-cloudant/* @agnes512
acceptance/repository-mongodb/* @bajtos
acceptance/repository-mysql/* @bajtos
acceptance/repository-postgresql/* @nabdelgadir

packages/authentication/* @bajtos @raymondfeng
packages/boot/* @raymondfeng @hacksparrow
packages/booter-lb3app/* @bajtos @nabdelgadir
packages/build/* @bajtos @raymondfeng
packages/http-caching-proxy/* @bajtos
packages/http-server/* @hacksparrow @bajtos
packages/cli/* @raymondfeng @bajtos
packages/context/* @bajtos @raymondfeng
packages/core/* @bajtos @raymondfeng
packages/eslint-config/* @raymondfeng
packages/metadata/* @raymondfeng
packages/model-api-builder/* @bajtos @nabdelgadir
packages/openapi-spec-builder/* @bajtos @raymondfeng
packages/openapi-v3/* @bajtos @jannyHou
packages/repository/* @raymondfeng
packages/repository-tests/* @bajtos
packages/repository-json-schema/* @bajtos
packages/rest/* @bajtos @raymondfeng
packages/rest-crud/* @bajtos @hacksparrow
packages/service-proxy/* @raymondfeng
packages/testlab/* @bajtos
packages/tsdocs/* @raymondfeng

extensions/health/* @raymondfeng

examples/todo/* @bajtos @hacksparrow
examples/context/* @raymondfeng
examples/express-composition/* @nabdelgadir
examples/greeter-extension/* @raymondfeng
examples/hello-world/* @emonddr
examples/lb3-application/* @bajtos @nabdelgadir
examples/log-extension/* @hacksparrow
examples/rpc-server/* @hacksparrow
examples/soap-calculator/* @marioestradarosa

docs/* @bajtos @raymondfeng @hacksparrow @jannyHou
benchmark/* @bajtos @raymondfeng
